1. Justify-content

The justify-content property is a sub-property of the Flexible Box Layout module.
It defines the alignment along the main axis. It helps distribute extra free space leftover when either all the flex items on a line are inflexible, or are flexible but have reached their maximum size. It also exerts some control over the alignment of items when they overflow the line.

The justify-content property accepts five different values:

1.flex-start (default): items are packed toward the start line
2.flex-end: items are packed toward to end line
3.center: items are centered along the line
4.space-between: items are evenly distributed in the line; first item is on the start line, last item on the end line
5.space-around: items are evenly distributed in the line with equal space around them
6.space-evenly: items are distributed so that the spacing between any two adjacent alignment subjects, before the first alignment subject, and after the last alignment subject is the same


Align-item

The align-items property defines the default behavior for how items are laid out along the cross axis (perpendicular to the main axis).
Imagine a horizontal flexbox layout. That horizontal flow is the main axis, so align-items is the alignment opposite that, on the vertical axis. Bear in mind that changes when the main axis changes, and the cross axis changes with it.
You can think of align-items as the justify-content version for the cross-axis (perpendicular to the main-axis).

2. The align-items property accepts 5 different values:

1.flex-start: cross-start margin edge of the items is placed on the cross-start line
2.flex-end: cross-end margin edge of the items is placed on the cross-end line
3.center: items are centered in the cross-axis
4.baseline: items are aligned such as their baselines align
5.stretch (default): stretch to fill the container (still respect min-width/max-width)



3. Gap

The gap property in CSS is a shorthand for row-gap and column-gap, specifying the size of gutters, which is the space between rows and columns within grid, flex, and multi-column layouts.


gap accepts the following values:

1.normal: (Default) The browser will specify a used value of 1em for multi-column layout and 0px for all other layout contexts (i.e. grid and flex).
2.<length>: Any valid and non-negative CSS length, such as px, em, rem and %, among others.
3.<percentage>: The size of the gap as a non-negative percentage value relative to the dimension of the element. (See below for details.)
4.initial: Applies the property’s default setting, which is normal.
5.inherit: Adopts the gap value of the parent.
6.unset: Removes the current gap from the element.
7.Percentages in gap properties

4. Flex-direction


The flex-direction property is a sub-property of the Flexible Box Layout module. It establishes the main-axis, thus defining the direction flex items are placed in the flex container.


The flex-direction property accepts four possible values:

1.row: same as text direction (default)
2.row-reverse: opposite to text direction
3.column: same as row but top to bottom
4.column-reverse: same as row-reverse top to bottom

5. Flex-wrap

The flex-wrap property is a sub-property of the Flexible Box Layout Module. It defines whether the flex items are forced in a single line or can be flowed into multiple lines. If set to multiple lines, it also defines the cross-axis which determines the direction new lines are stacked in, aiding responsiveness layout behavior without CSS media queries.

values

1.nowrap (default): single-line which may cause the container to overflow
2.wrap: multi-lines, direction is defined by flex-direction
3.wrap-reverse: multi-lines, opposite to direction defined by flex-direction